This is a maven project incorporating java code which can be used to run a CDO server. 

FUNCTIONALITY: This CDO Server is able to support the storage and querying of models which conform to any meta-model that has to be pre-registered in order to be correctly handle. It can include two different type stores: (a) a DBStore which accommodates for supporting all the main features of CDO and is more stable but has the limitation that the respective SQL queries posed require the knowledge of the way meta-model concepts and associations are mapped to underlying database tables; (b) a Teneo/Hibernate Store which supports the issuing of HQL queries thus not requiring the exact knowledge of the tables in the underlying Hibernate Database. This store follows a default way of mapping ecore concepts and relationships to database tables. This mapping could be modified in the course of the project to:
(i) customize the way tables and columns are named
(ii) explicitly state the association cardinality for concept relationships
(iii) cater for big property values.

REQUIREMENTS:
 - java 7
 - maven

BUILDING:
 - run "mvn clean install"

CONFIGURATION:
The code is accompanied with a .properties file through which it can be specified:
(a) which database to use (dbtype=) with two databases already supported (mysql & hsqldb). Additional databases could be supported by just incorporating the respective driver in the code but this would be done only if a particular requirement is set in the project.
(b) the connection url (dburl=) to this database. For hsqldb the connection URL is specific, but for mysql it depends on the name of the db that must have been created (prefix jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/ is stable for this url unless the database is hosted elsewhere and the respective server listens on a different port).
(c) the username credential (username=) for connecting to the database
(d) the password credential (password=) for connecting to the database
(e) the name of the CDO repository to be created by the server ("repo1" should be the default)
(f) the port on which to listen for incoming (CDO) client requests
(g) the type of store ("hibernate" or "db" mapping to the above types mentioned in the FUNCTIONALITY section of this README)
(h) whether logging is "on" or "off" (default is "off" so only some initial messages are shown and SQL statements are not visualized)
(i) whether security should be enabled ("on") or not ("off") (default is "off")

This .properties file should be placed in a particular directory whose path is denoted by the system variable PAASAGE_CONFIG_DIR. Alternatively, you can indicate in the command line used to run the server the following: "-Deu.paasage.configdir=<directory path where the properties file resides>".


USAGE: As this is a server, you need to run it indefinitely until you decide to stop it. There are two different ways to run the code:
(1) run either
 (a) "mvn exec:java" or 
 (b) go to "target" directory and run "java -jar server-2.0.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar" (please have in mind that this is specific to the current version of the server. So you need to modify the name of the jar file if this version is modified)  
(2) import the contents of this directory in the Application Development Environment of your choice and then run "mvn exec:java" to execute the code/server. 

Please consider that in case of MySQL, the database must have been created a priori and should be empty (to avoid any possible conflicts in the naming of tables that are automatically created by teneo/hibernate). The respective user (whose credentials are given) must have also been created and granted access to this database.  

To exploit the functionality of a CDO Server, either an eclipse client/browser can be used or the programmatic cdo-client can be incorporated in your code (which can be downloaded from git at: http://git.cetic.be/paasage/cdo_client and used in the dependencies of your pom.xml file - see the documentation in the git repository of cdo-client). The normal way to work with the eclipse cdo client/browser is to open a session, then a CDO transaction, next create the resources as well as the objects instantiating respective ecore concepts, save these resources and finally commit the transaction. Alternarively, the documentation of the cdo-client in git can be inspected to understand how to store models in the CDO server and pose queries over them.

LIMITATIONS:
- not all possible RDBMS are currently supported
